Good morning, my name is Jon Hess.
Today I'm going to speak to you
about integrating your custom views
into the new Interface Builder 3.
So let's go ahead and start with
a quick feature recap of what's
new in Interface Builder 3.
In Interface Builder 3,
we added a new document window
with three new display modes,
an updated inspector panel that
we've sliced up into show the
attributes of your classes,
a new connections heads-up
display that allow you to quickly
make connections and see what's
connected to and from your objects.
We've added support for all the new
Cocoa controls and Cocoa animations,
and we've added a library for
accessing all of your controls,
objects, and views.
So the interesting part about what's
in Interface Builder 3 for this
talk is going to be the library.
And specifically,
we're going to talk about how
to integrate your objects into
Interface Builder's library.
So the library is a set of categorized,
pre-configured template objects.
And the user just uses the library
to drag and drop your objects and
duplicate them into their document.
So why would you extend Interface
Builder and bring your own
objects into our library?
Well,
if your application has a customized
look and feel or you have some custom
views that you use in your application,
you're probably familiar with Interface
Builder's NS Custom View that you
drag in and set the custom class,
and when you run your application,
your view appears in its place.
Well, it's hard to lay out and set up
your view just the way that you
want it with just the custom view.
If you integrate your view
into Interface Builder,
you'll be able to use WYSIWYG editing
to position your view just exactly where
you want to see it in your interface.
So if you follow our steps today
and build a plugin for your view,
it's going to be really easy
for you to set up your interface
and design its layout and style
and get everything just right.
Another reason why you might
integrate your view into Interface
Builder is if you go through all
the steps to integrate your view,
you'll package it in a framework,
and now your view will be
loading into two applications,
your application and our application.
And that's going to mean that you've
gone through the steps to modulize
and well-factor your view classes,
and the well-factored code is
going to be more maintainable and
easier to use in your application.
So as we talk about integrating
views into Interface Builder today,
we're going to refer back
to a couple of samples.
And the first sample we're going
to refer to is the fragment view.
You can think of the fragment
view as a simplified version
of the segmented control.
It only has a couple of properties.
It has a set of fragments,
and it has a label for each of them.
We also have one other...
Sam,
we're going to refer back to you today
as we talk about the different ways that
you integrate views in Interface Builder.
This is the fill view.
It's just a simple box.
It has a fill color property
and a border color property.
It also accepts other views as children,
so it has a content area.
Here we go.
So in order to go through all the
steps of building a plugin today,
we're going to start by talking about
how you should design your view.
What are some good principles
that you should have?
In general, these aren't specifically
for Interface Builder,
but if you follow them,
it's going to make integrating your
view into Interface Builder very easy.
It'll also make it very easy for
other applications to use your view
once they're in your framework.
We're going to talk about
the anatomy of a plugin,
like what belongs in your plugin bundle,
what classes you'll need to have,
where your plugin bundle needs to live,
and how the Interface Builder
architecture and framework is structured
so that you can build your plugin.
We're also going to have a checklist that
you can go through one step at a time for
how to build your plugin and integrate
your view into Interface Builder.
So first, the design philosophy.
What are some general practices and
tips that you should follow when
building your object to make it easy to
integrate them into Interface Builder?
Your object should provide archiving.
This is standard NS-- if you
adopt the NS coding protocol and
implement the standard methods,
initWithCoder and encodeWithCoder,
we'll need to have you do that
to have your view integrate
into Interface Builder.
You also need to be key value coding
compliant and key value observing
compliant for a number of key pass,
and we'll talk about which
key pass a little bit later,
but doing those is going to make your
object work great in Interface Builder.
You're also going to want to use
proper accessors and mutators.
So just accessing your instance
variables with either set value for key,
get value for key,
or just using your accessors
is going to ensure that you're
KVO coding and observation compliant.
Then also correct display and validation.
You need to make sure that whenever
any of your properties of your view
change that affect the display of
your view to properly call set needs
display or set needs display and rect.
This is going to ensure that undo and
redo are going to always keep your view
looking just the way that it should.
So if you do all these things
and adopt these standard
These standard protocols,
you're going to get undo and redo
for free in Interface Builder.
Your view is going to
be copy and pasteable.
We're going to be able to use
the lift and stamp tool that
we talked about on Wednesday in
the Interface Builder session.
Your inspector is going
to refresh properly,
and your widget is always going
to look correct across undos,
redos, inspector changes, resizes,
and everything.
So next let's talk about the
Interface Builder plugin architecture.
What classes live in what places?
What do you need to subclass?
How does that all work?
So we have Interface Builder
structured with an application,
the Interface Builder app,
the Interface Builder kit.
This is a framework that the
Interface Builder app uses and
that your plugins will use.
And then plugins.
All of our views are integrated
into Interface Builder with the
same plugins that I'm going to
teach you how to make today.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at the Interface Builder kit.
The Interface Builder kit
has three classes that we're
going to be focusing on today.
The first is IB plugin.
IB plugin is how you tell Interface
Builder about all of your widgets,
views, objects, controllers.
The next is the IB inspector.
This is how you-- you'll
want a subclass IB inspector,
and you'll use this to show the user
all of the properties of your objects,
views,
and controllers when the user selects
them and brings up the inspector.
Next is IB document.
You can use IB document to ask Interface
Builder about all the other objects
that are in a document along with yours.
In addition to those three
classes that I just mentioned,
Interface Builder makes heavy use
of categories to decide what are the
runtime capabilities of your object.
And two of them that are
going to be important to us
are IB Object Integration,
this category on IB Object,
and it's going to give you an
opportunity to declare what the
attributes of your object are.
Those are the attributes that
you'll need to be KVO compliant
and KVC compliant for.
It's also going to give you
an opportunity to list the
inspectors for your object.
We also have category methods on view.
And one of the things that they do is
help provide precise geometry information
to Interface Builder so that we can
give you a nice WYSIWYG experience
with the layout and the Aqua guides
and all the snapping and proper rules.
All right, so let's get to the meat
of the presentation,
the Interface Builder plugin checklist.
We're going to go through a set of
steps that you're going to do one
by one in your Xcode project to
build an Interface Builder plugin.
So the first thing that we're going
to talk about is the plugin class.
So our diagram from earlier,
once your plugin's included,
it's going to look something like this.
We'll have the Interface
Builder application linking the
Interface Builder framework.
We'll have your plugin that links
the Interface Builder kit framework,
and your plugin will link your framework.
And so your view is going
to live in your framework,
and by having your plugin
link your framework,
all this is going to come to
life inside of Interface Builder.
And Interface Builder is going
to access everything to do with
your view through your plugin.
So you should put your
view in your framework.
Your application will
link your framework.
Your plugin will link your framework.
All of your Interface Builder logic that
has to do with integrating your view into
Interface Builder belongs in your plugin.
None of it belongs in your framework.
And so you should have categories
on your objects that I just talked
about to override the category
as we talked about earlier,
and we're going to go into further
detail later in the presentation.
And your subclasses of IB Inspector,
for example, belong in your framework.
So how do you define your plugin?
We've overloaded the term plugin.
There's the plugin bundle.
This is the on-disk
representation of your plugin,
standard NSBundle,
and then there's a plugin subclass
that you're going to write.
So the plugin bundle being a
standard NSBundle needs to have
a unique bundle identifier.
This is the bundle
identifier in the InfoP list.
We use this for uniquing your plugin,
and we also use it for
tracking dependencies.
So that once a document begins
to use objects from your plugin,
we make sure to load your plugin in
the future to edit that document.
In your bundle that you have on disk,
in your Info.plist,
there's a key NSPrincipleClass.
You're going to need to set that
to be the name of the subclass
that you provide for IB plugin.
And that's how Interface Builder is
going to know who to talk to when it
loads your plugin for the first time.
So as soon as it loads your plugin,
it's going to begin talking to the
shared instance of that principal class.
And as resources of your plugin bundle,
you should have class descriptions.
We're going to go into those in
section four of the checklist.
But the class descriptions tell
Interface Builder how to connect
the objects that you integrate into
Interface Builder with each other.
Like what outlets and actions they have.
So, in the plugin class,
as opposed to the plugin bundle,
there's two methods that you're
going to want to override.
One of them is label.
Label is there to help you
provide a user-readable name.
So, this is what's going to show
up in the preferences or
during dependency analysis if,
you know,
should a plugin fail to be loaded.
We're also going to have a method,
libraryNibNames.
You override this method and return
a list of names of nibs that are
in your bundle's resources that
Interface Builder is going to
load and inject into the library.
So, this is how you're going to get
your views into the library.
So, this is the most important and first
method that you're probably going to
look at when you build your plugin.
Okay, for all the file types and projects
and bundles that we talked about,
we've got Xcode templates available.
So there's a new project template in
the Interface Builder SDK section.
It's in the standard
Apple plugin section of Xcode,
and it's the Interface
Builder 3.0 plugin.
If you create a new instance of
this project from this template,
it includes a framework
to put your view into,
and it also includes a target to
build a plugin for Interface Builder.
And that project's ready to build, run,
link,
and load into Interface Builder right
after you instantiate the template
from Xcode New Project Assistant.
We also have new files in the
Xcode New File Assistant for
the class description files
that we talked about earlier,
for Inspector NIBS,
and for the Inspector class.
All right,
so that's how we build the plugin.
Now let's go ahead and take a
look at how you build your library
nibs because once you do this,
then you'll be ready to actually
see something in Interface Builder.
So these library nibs tell Interface
Builder about the objects that
you're going to integrate into it.
They actually contain the objects.
So you use Interface Builder to build
your plugin for Interface Builder.
You might have many objects
that you're going to integrate
into Interface Builder.
Inside of these library
nibs that you build,
you're going to put
library template objects.
You might have noticed in
Interface Builder's new library,
there's an IBA SDK section
underneath the Cocoa section,
and it just includes one object,
and that object's the
library template object.
You can drag that into your interface,
and it's a container,
and you'll put your view inside of it,
and then Interface Builder will load
that into the library when you specify
the name of this nib in the library
nib names method I mentioned earlier.
And we're going to show you exactly how
to do that in a demo in a little bit.
So the library object template
needs to provide a couple of
things that are mandatory.
The first is it must
have a single sub view.
This sub view is what the user
is going to drag from the library
to deposit into a document.
It needs to have a path to categorize
the template into the tree of available
controls in Interface Builder.
It also needs to have a label to
identify the template to the user.
To set the content of the library,
just add one sub view to the library
object template in Interface Builder.
To set the label and the path,
there's an inspector for the view.
So when you select an Interface Builder,
you can bring up the
attributes inspector,
and it will be placed right
there to set the label and path.
So there's also two optional properties
of the library object templates.
If you've played with Interface Builder,
you might have noticed as you
drag our views off of the library,
they animate into larger,
more discernible forms of themselves.
The way that you set this up
is that we have two outlets
on IB Library Object Template.
The outlets are Dragged
View and Represented Object.
If you connect the Dragged View of the
Library Object Template to another view,
then as the user drags your
small view of the content of
the Library Object Template,
it will animate to the view that
you set as the Dragged View.
You can also set a Represented
Object outlet for your
Library Object Template.
This is how you can drag
something other than a view.
So you might put an image or a
view representation of something
that's not actually a view,
for example, a controller or subclass.
And then when the user drags
your view off of the library
and deposits it into a document,
it will actually deposit
your controller object.
Once you've built your plugin,
you'll need to load it
into Interface Builder.
After you define these
library object templates,
you're going to have something
that's ready for the user to see
or for you to test and interact
with in Interface Builder.
And the way you'll do that is you'll
bring up Interface Builder's preferences.
In the Preferences,
there's a toolbar across the top
with different preference sections,
and one of them is Plugins.
In the Plugins section,
there's a small plus button
underneath the list of plugins,
and you can go ahead and click that,
and you'll be presented
with an open dialog.
You'll be able to go find your plugin,
load it, and see your objects appear in
Interface Builder's library.
So with that, I'm going to hand it
over to Matthew Firlik,
and he's going to give you a demo
of the first steps in creating
your Interface Builder plugin.
Thanks, Jon.
So to give you guys an example of
what we're trying to talk about here,
up here you see the view
that Jon was describing.
This is the fragment view.
And I just put it into a
little demo application,
and I centered it and gave it four
or five different little fragments.
Now, how many of you guys have
written custom views before?
So I think you guys probably all know
that in order to get that on the screen,
I had to write a little bit of code.
And so I'm just going to show
you that here's the little app
delegate code that I wrote,
just a simple await from nib.
And I had to go through and actually
create the different fragment names,
go ahead and allocate the view,
put it inside,
and then raise your hand if you
like the crazy math where you've
got to figure out the coordinate
space and get it all fitting and
the strings and struts and stuff.
Yeah, exactly.
Everybody loves that.
You guys shouldn't have to do this.
So this is what we're going to
remove for you is the ability to
take this view and just put it into
IB and make this a lot simpler.
So I'm going to go ahead and close this.
And on the left-hand side here,
I have my IB fragment view project.
This project has two targets in it,
as Jon described.
This is from the Xcode project template.
It has a framework target,
and it has a plug-in target.
So the framework target has the
two files for this particular view.
It has the IB fragment view
and the fragment itself.
And I've already built that
and just put that into.
I'm going to go ahead and
create a new class here.
And we're going to call it MyPlugin.
And I'm going to go ahead
and create a new class here.
And the plugin is going to
use that framework to put the
view into Interface Builder.
So I'm not going to do any magic here.
We're just going to go
ahead and do the real thing.
Let's just go ahead and
create a new class here.
And we're going to call it MyPlugin.
And go ahead and add that
to the correct target,
to my plugin target.
And there's my class.
So this is going to be the class that
is the principal class for the plugin
that helps tell IB what the name is,
where the library files are.
A couple things you need to make sure
you do is you make sure to bring in
the Interface Builder kit framework.
So we'll do that.
And this should be a
subclass of IB plugin.
That's all I need to do on that side.
Go into the actual implementation.
As Jon described,
there are two methods that
we really need to implement.
The first is the label for
this particular plug-in.
And this is what's going to show
up inside of the inspector when
I go ahead and load my plug-in.
And we'll just call this My Demo Plug-in.
And the next thing is the
array of library nib names.
This is the names of all of the
nib files that we want to load
into the library when this plugin
is put into Interface Builder.
So I'm just going to go ahead and type in
I'm just going to put in any
name that I want right now.
And we'll call this My Library Nib.
So that's it.
That's all the code that
I need to put in for my plugin.
So now let's go ahead and since
I said that the library nib name,
I'm only going to have one,
it's called my library nib,
let's go ahead and create that nib file.
So I'm just going to go
down here to Resources.
New feature we haven't talked about,
but some of you might have
noticed that if you could bring
up the new file assistant,
there are now nib files in the wizard,
so you don't actually have to go
to IB and create them anymore.
You can just do them right from Xcode.
So I'm going to go ahead and
create a new empty nib file,
make sure I name it what
I called it in my plugin,
click Finish, and let's go ahead and open
that up in Interface Builder.
So I open it up and you see that there's
nothing in my nib file right now.
What we need to do is put in
a view in order to put the
elements for the library.
So I'm just going to drag a custom view
into the window here and open that up,
and here's my custom view.
So as Jon said,
there's a section in the library,
you can see it up here, called the IBSDK.
And if I click on that,
there's one view inside of it.
It might be difficult to
see with the lighting here,
but there actually is an element here.
And when I pull it off,
you can see it's this
little white square.
This is the library object template.
It just looks like a little white view,
but this is the element that's
going to contain your view that
you want to put into the library.
So now at this point,
I have the template for it.
Now I need to put my view in it.
But now we're kind of at the catch-22 of
I can't put my view in the library until
it's somewhere where I can get at it,
but I don't have it here to work with.
So what I'm going to do
is I'm going to go back,
and I'm going to grab another custom
view and just drop that inside
of the library object template.
And I'll bring up the inspector here
and just resize a little bit so that
it fits a little better in the window.
So this is going to be the
representation for my view.
And the only thing I need to
do is to bring up the inspector
and to tell it here that it says
right now that it's an NSView,
but I know that's not right.
I want this to be my IB fragment view.
So now I've set the
custom class for that,
and that will be the element
that's dragged off when
I do it from the library.
Now, Jon also described that you can do
this for things that aren't views.
So we have the Fragment View,
but we also have a fragment.
And a fragment is just
an NSObject subclass.
So I'm going to put in another template.
And in this case,
I'd go back to the library
and try and figure out,
well, what am I going to drag in here?
Well, the thing is that I don't really
have a view I can drag in here.
What I really want is an object.
So I'm just going to drag an object
into my document window here.
And much like I did before
with the Fragment View,
I'm going to make this a custom subclass.
And this is just the IB Fragment.
And now I want to connect these two up.
So I'm going to go ahead
and bring up the HUD here.
And I can grab this
and bring it over here.
And now it's saying, well,
it's not letting me connect that.
Why would that be?
Well,
it's doing that because it doesn't really
know what kind of object this is yet.
What I need to actually do is come over
here into the framework project and just
grab the header and drag it in here.
And now that's going to tell it, oh,
IB Fragment is actually
an NSObject subclass.
It's OK that you can go
ahead and connect that.
So now it'll connect up.
But I still have nothing in
the library object template.
If I brought it up,
it would be an empty view.
So I'm just going to go back to my
library and we'll grab an image.
And we'll drop the image right in here.
And we'll make this a generic object.
And we'll make sure
that it's large enough.
So that's the image for the view.
So we have the image and
the represented object.
If I decided not to actually
put the represented object in,
I'd be dragging an image into my project,
and that's probably not what you want.
So as a final step here,
we're going to go ahead
and select both of these.
And you'll see in the inspector
here that there's a label.
What I really want to set, though,
is the library path.
This is the section in the library that
these views are going to show up in.
So I'll just call this Demo.
And go ahead.
And now I'm done.
Nothing else to do for my library.
Let's go back here and
just build this project.
And it succeeded.
So Interface Builder is still running,
but now I just need to load my plugin.
So I'm going to go ahead and
bring up the preferences,
go to the Plugins tab,
and let's go and load the
plugin that I just built.
So we'll click the plus sign.
There's the plugin I just built.
Click Open.
And you'll see a couple things happen.
First, it put my demo plugin in here,
and there's the My Library nib.
And when I click over here,
there's the demo section,
and there are the views
in Interface Builder.
And if we just go ahead and
create a new window here,
you'll see that very easily I can
just go back and drag this view
off and drop it on my window,
and there's my fragment view.
So I can go ahead and resize it,
and there's my view.
Integration in about two minutes,
30 seconds.
It's actually that easy.
So...
With that,
I'm going to give it back to Jon,
and we'll talk about creating the
inspectors and everything else you need.
Thank you, Matt.
All right,
so let's go ahead and take a couple
steps through the rest of our plugin
checklist and see what it'll take to
build all the rest of the Interface
Builder support for our plugin.
The inspectors are probably
the most interesting piece
that's missing right now,
so let's jump right into that.
So, a quick review of the inspectors
in Interface Builder 3.
We've sliced up our inspector a little
bit differently in Interface Builder
3 than we did in Interface Builder 2.
There's some modes across the top
to inspect things like attributes,
connections, size, bindings,
and animations.
And inside of the different modes,
we have some slices to inspect the
different properties as they are
owned by the classes that represent
the objects that are selected.
So, today we're going to talk about
putting one of your inspectors
into the stack of inspector slices
on the attributes inspector mode.
So to create an inspector,
you're going to make a custom subclass
of IB Inspector in your project.
In your inspector,
you're going to want to
override at least two methods.
One of them is going to be ViewNibName.
ViewNibName tells Interface
Builder which nib to load to load
the interface for your inspector.
In that nib,
you should have the file's owner
set to the custom Inspector class
that you've just written.
And you should have one connection
from the file's owner to a single
top-level custom view in the nib file.
And that's going to be the
Inspector view that Interface
Builder loads into its Inspector when
one of your objects is selected.
Next is a refresh method.
Refresh is the method on IB Inspector.
You're going to override that method.
It's going to be called
for you very often.
It's going to be called whenever
the selected objects change,
meaning either the set of objects
changes or the properties of any
of the objects in the set change.
When that happens,
you're going to have an opportunity
to update all of your Inspector UI to
show the current properties of
the objects that are selected.
You should also have action
methods in your inspector.
When the user clicks on the
widgets in your inspector,
your action methods will fire,
and this will be your opportunity to set
the properties of the inspected objects.
So the inspector stack,
how does this work?
There's a category method that
we talked about on NSObject,
and that category method is IB populate
attributes inspector classes.
We're going to invoke this whenever
one of your objects is selected,
and this is how you're going to
tell us who your inspector is.
So when this method gets invoked,
we're going to pass in an NSMutable
array as the single argument,
and you're going to invoke super.
Super is going to take the
opportunity to invoke its parent
all the way up to NSObject,
and each object in turn is
going to put its inspector class
into the array of inspectors,
and you'll do that last,
meaning your inspector
will show up at the top.
So the order that the array is populated
with inspector subclasses is the order
that the inspectors will show up in
Interface Builder's inspector panel.
So to implement your Inspector class,
I talked about actions and
the refresh method earlier,
but you can also do it
automatically with bindings.
And that's by far the easiest
way to implement your Inspector.
So if you build your Inspector in
Interface Builder and you have a
number of checkboxes to control,
some Boolean properties and
maybe some text fields to
input some numbers or strings,
you can bind them all.
And what you want to bind
them to is IP Inspector,
which is your files owner, has a method,
has a property,
inspected objects controller,
and this is an array controller.
So you can bind all of your
Inspector widgets to the files
owner's inspected objects
controllers dot selection keypath.
If you choose to do
your Inspector manually,
you override the refresh method.
Every time it's called,
you should iterate over your
Inspector objects and refresh
all of your Inspector widgets.
And then you should also use actions
and outlets so that when the user clicks
on the various Inspector widgets or
types into them and presses return,
you'll have an opportunity to take
the user's input and apply them to the
properties of the selected objects.
And again, you can actually mix the
automatic or manual Inspector.
So you can have actions and outlets
and override the refresh method
and bind some of your controls.
So, multiple inspection,
that's a new thing
with Interface Builder.
And it's fairly difficult to
implement if you do things
manually with a refresh method,
and it's really easy with bindings.
So I'm going to encourage
you to use bindings here.
But if you do it manually,
the common case is that the common
cases you'll run into is either all
the objects that you have selected
are going to have the same property,
the same value for
some specific property.
And if that's the case,
you'll just reflect that
property in the Inspector widget
that reflects the property.
If at least one object differs in a
value for the representative attribute,
then you'll want to put some kind
of mixed state into the control.
So, for example,
you might use the placeholder
string of a text field,
set a pop-up button to
have no selected item,
or put a checkbox into the mixed state.
There are some uncommon cases
where it's really hard to
deal with multiple selection.
If you have an attribute
that's multi-valued,
for example, think if we had a person
object that might have an
array of aliases as a property,
too many relationship to aliases.
If the user selects two people
with two different sets of aliases,
there's nothing that we can really
show the user to reflect that.
Even if the two properties agree,
it would be confusing to somehow
reflect that into a table
view or some other control.
It's perfectly acceptable to just bail
out at this point and mark that widget
that you can't support for multiple
selection as disabled and don't populate
it when there's multiple inspection.
If your entire inspector UI is populated
with values like this that just
can't deal with multiple inspection,
you have an opportunity to override
the method supportsMultipleInspection
on your inspector.
And should you do this and return no,
then your inspector will just
stay out of the stack when
there's a multiple inspection.
So let's take a look at how
this all plays together.
When the user selects your
object for the first time,
when the user selects
your object any time,
Interface Builder is going to call
the method ibpopulate attributes
inspector classes on your object.
You're going to call super.
For example,
if we were the fragment view,
that would be NSVU.
NSVU is going to call super.
We're going to populate
the stack of inspectors.
So as we go one at a time,
we build up the inspector stack.
Then the user's going to enter
some value into your inspector.
Your action method's going to be fired.
Here we've just changed the number
of fragments from three to four.
So we're going to do whatever it takes
to change the number of fragments
from three to four on our view.
And when this property changes,
Interface Builder's going to notice
that for one of the key paths that we're
going to declare a little bit later,
the value has changed because it's
observing it with key value observing.
And because the value's changed,
it's going to call
refresh on your inspector,
and you're going to take this opportunity
to update all of your inspector state.
So, actually let's skip this demo and
go a little bit further and talk
about other things that we can,
We'll come to this later.
I'm going to talk more about
building your Interface Builder
plugin before we do that demo.
So I mentioned the class
description a couple times.
This is maybe the most unique of the
Interface Builder integration aspects.
A class description is how you
tell Interface Builder about
the properties of your class,
like about the connections that
it can make to other objects.
So here's a sample property
description for NSL.
And in this class description,
we're saying that NSL is
a class that exists.
Its base class is NSObject,
and it has one output formatter
that's a type NSFormatter.
So if your object that you
integrate into Interface
Builder has outlets and actions,
you'll need to provide one of
these class description files also
to tell Interface Builder what
those actions and outlets are.
And that's going to make it so when a
user right-clicks on one of your objects
for control clicks and the HUD comes up,
those actions and outlets
will be available to connect.
So that's the class description,
pretty simple.
And then next is going to be
the IB integration categories.
Those are the category methods
that we mentioned earlier.
IB object integration is perhaps
the most important category.
It's filled with methods
that are interesting,
but all these methods have
default implementations,
and these default implementations
are almost entirely sufficient.
You only need to override these methods
when you want to change behavior.
So you shouldn't look at the
list of methods that we have
and be worried that there are 13
methods that you need to override.
You might override one or two of them,
and you might override none.
When you do choose to
override these methods,
make sure only to do it in your plugin.
So for example,
if we were integrating the fragment view,
we might put a category on fragment
view in our plugin and override some
of the object integration methods.
So let's take a look at what
some of these methods are.
The Fragment View has a set of children,
which are its IB fragments.
And it's going to tell Interface Builder
that these children exist so that the
user can select them and inspect them and
just utilize them in Interface Builder.
And to do that,
we're going to override a method,
IBDefaultChildren, on our Fragment View.
And we're just going to
return the array of fragments.
The next method we're going to
look at is IB Populate Keypaths.
Earlier in the presentation when I talked
about what things you should do in
general to make it easy to integrate
your view into Interface Builder,
I talked about being KVO compliant and
KVC compliant for a number of keypaths.
But I didn't say which keypaths.
This is where you tell Interface
Builder about all the interesting
keypaths on your object,
and for those keypaths you will
need to be KVO and KVC compliant.
So for the Fill View example
that I brought up earlier,
it has two properties:
border color and fill color.
We're going to need to declare
those key paths in this method,
and we're going to make sure to
be KVO and KVC compliant for them.
The way we declare the methods
is when this method is invoked,
we're going to pass in
a mutable dictionary.
And inside of the mutable dictionary,
the mutable dictionary is
going to be populated with...
A number of mutable sets.
And each set is filled with a set
of key paths that are interesting.
Those sets are keyed in the dictionary
as the attributes key pass and the
two one relationship key pass and the
too many relationship key pass and
the localizable strings and so on.
And as you have key paths
that are interesting,
you'll add them to the proper set.
So the Interface Builder is able
to make things like lift and
stamp and undo work for free.
And it's also going to make sure
that your inspector is updated
all the time when things change,
either inside or outside
of your inspector.
So another method we're going
to look at is this method,
IB Rect for Child and Window Controller.
When you have a child of one of
your objects that you integrate
into Interface Builder,
and you want the user to be able
to click onto it and select it
or tab through your interface and
hit your objects one at a time,
if your object's not a view,
you need to tell Interface Builder
where this object lives on the screen.
It's really easy for us to
figure out where views live,
so if you're just integrating a view,
you don't have to worry
about this method.
But the IB Fragments that we introduce
as children of the IB Fragment View,
they're just NSObjects,
so they don't have a frame or
a bounds that Interface Builder
can use to locate the objects.
So we would, on the Fragment View,
implement this method,
IB Rect for Child and Window Controller,
to tell Interface Builder where
the fragments live in the window.
And we do this all in window coordinates.
So when this method gets called,
we return a rectangle in
window coordinates for the
fragment passed in as the child.
And we do all this in window
space to make Interface
Builder work great in high DPI,
and to make it so that you
can use any kinds of bounds,
transform,
or rotation inside of your view,
and we can keep everything working
great in Interface Builder.
If you do this,
this is going to let the user select
your objects by clicking on them,
tab through them.
It's going to let users drag
and drop into your views.
It's going to provide the tab navigation.
It's going to allow the user to
connect to and from your objects.
So this method is really important.
you integrate a non-view object.
So in addition to the
object integration methods,
there's a couple of view integration
methods that we're going to look at.
If you've ever designed a
container and tried to integrate
it into Interface Builder,
you've probably run into
a number of roadblocks.
We've made this really easy
to do in Interface Builder 3.
There's just one method
that you need to override,
IB Designable Content View.
So if your view can accept children,
then you should override this method,
IB Designable Content View,
and that's going to give you,
and you'll tell Interface Builder
what your Designable Content View is,
this can be yourself.
For example, for our fill view,
we just return self from this method.
This indicates Interface Builder
that the fill view can have
any views added into itself.
This lets the user drag the band select,
the children of the fill view.
It lets the user drag and
drop into the fill view.
drop out of the fill view.
It lets the user hold the mouse
to lift and move or pop and drag
the children of the fill view.
It lets the user drag the views around
with the mouse to position them,
and it lets the user keyboard
position them with the arrow keys.
One pixel at a time.
So you're going to get a
lot of functionality by just
overriding this one method.
So last is IB Layout Inset.
IB Layout Inset tells Interface Builder
some precise layout information about
your view so that we can get great
AquaGuide support and you can have
a good WYSIWYG editing experience.
Lots of Cocoa Views draw with a shadow.
And the way they do this is they
typically only draw the real
content of their view in some
inset section of their bounds.
So in this sample that we have here,
we have a bounds rectangle and some
distance inside of that rectangle is
where we actually draw our fragment view.
Then we choose to have a
shadow that's slightly offset
to the bottom and to the left.
We don't want to include in the
layout rectangle of the view.
The layout rectangle is what Interface
Builder uses to snap the views next
to each other and determine if two
views are next to each other visually,
if they're right aligned or left aligned.
You'll want to override this method
and tell Interface Builder just how
far your shadow juts out from the
side of the drawing of your view.
This is going to give you
great AquaGuide support.
So with that,
let's go ahead and turn it over
to Matt for the final demo,
and he'll show you how to build
inspectors and get everything
else working inside of your
Interface Builder plugin.
Okay, so last we left off,
we have our plugin class.
We have our library nib class.
I wanted to take a moment and admit
that I got away with something,
and it's not fair,
and I should admit it to you guys.
I didn't actually set the
principal class for this.
I got away with it because it
was the only class in my plugin,
but this really should be set
to the actual class that I used.
So I called it My Plugin over here.
This should really be
My Plugin over here.
Otherwise,
once we start loading other classes,
the plugin won't create.
So make sure to fill that out,
and don't make my mistake.
So as Jon said,
now we have the items in the library.
We want to create the view
integration and the inspector classes.
So we have two views to integrate,
the fragment view and the fragment.
Rather than create all
the files in front of you,
I have stubbed out the files here.
And let's do them one at a time.
So I'm first going to take the
fragment classes and just drag
those into my project and let
them be added to the project.
And it's going to add the inspector
class and the view integration class.
If we open up the inspector class,
you see that it's actually just
a subclass of IB Inspector.
Nothing interesting there.
And really the only interesting part
here is defining the name of the nib that
represents the view in the inspector.
In this case,
it's the fragment inspector.
If we look at the integration class,
this is where things become
a little more interesting.
As Jon said,
there are a number of methods
we can implement to provide
different pieces of behavior,
and there are two that I want
to actually implement here.
The first is providing
the inspector for my view.
You can see in the first method up here,
ibpopulateAttributeInspectorClasses,
that it's got a mutable array of classes,
and it's going to call super.
So that's going to get the inspectors
for everything that are above or below,
depending on which way
you think about it,
me and my class hierarchy.
What I want to do, though,
is take that array and go ahead
and put my inspector class in it.
So I know I'm going to call
it ibFragmentInspector,
so I just add that to the
list of the inspectors,
and now my inspector is
going to be inserted into
the view when it's selected.
The next is the populate keypads.
This is the method that Jon mentioned
about things for undo and redo
and for all the other behaviors.
Again, you'll see here that we have a
dictionary of keypads at this time,
and we call super,
so every other view in the hierarchy
gets its chance to set those up.
I need to set up a couple things here.
I've listed out all of them.
You can see that there's
attribute keypads,
two one,
and too many relationship keypads.
I don't need to set up all of these,
but I just need to set up the first two.
In this case, we are on the fragment,
and the fragment has a title attribute,
the title of each fragment in the view.
I'm just going to go ahead and
get the set of the attributes
and add my item to it.
I'm just going to go
over here and add title.
And now that's defined
as one of my attributes.
I also need to do that
for one relationship.
Each fragment has a
relationship to its parent,
the Fragment View.
And that's just called Fragment View.
So in the Relationship section here,
the 2.1 Relationship section,
I'm going to go ahead and
type in Fragment View.
That's it.
That's the integration
for that particular class,
just defining the inspector
that we're going to use and
setting up the properties.
But let's now go ahead and
create an inspector for this,
because I want to be able to go ahead
and type in the title for each fragment
in Interface Builder and change it.
So again, I'm going to go back down
here and add a new nib file.
In this case, though,
instead of bringing up the empty nib,
I'm going to use the
Interface Builder SDK section.
And you'll see there's an
Interface Builder Inspector nib.
And we're going to give it the
name that was in the inspector,
the class, the IB Fragment Inspector.
And it's added to my project.
And once I open it up,
you can see that we actually
provide a default view for you.
It's got the right sizing,
the right width, and it just put in some
sample data for you.
In this case,
all I'm really interested in is
one field just for the title.
So I'm going to go ahead
and change this to title.
And I can resize it accordingly.
And now the question becomes,
where do I get this value from?
How am I going to get the value from the
inspector into my object and vice versa?
As Jon mentioned, if you use bindings,
this is a piece of cake.
There is, in the inspector class,
something called the
inspected objects controller.
And that is a controller that
holds onto the inspected objects.
So anytime you select
something in Interface Builder,
those objects are going
to be in that controller.
So for the model key path here,
I type in inspected objects controller.
Now,
when the inspected objects controller,
I need to actually get
a collection of objects.
And in that case, it's the selection.
And for the selection,
I want to set the title.
So it's title.
And I've bound that up.
Of course, I also bound it to the shared
user defaults controller,
which was not correct.
What I really wanted was the files owner,
which is actually the inspector.
So that's the inspected objects
controller selection title.
And that's it.
Now this view is going to
be bound to the selection,
which I know is going to
be my particular view.
So that's all I need to
set up for the fragment.
If I go back and
Let's go back and grab the other
classes here and show you what
these look like for the view itself.
I'll just go ahead and
add these to my project.
For the inspector,
we have the same kind of thing.
It's just going to be
populating the key paths.
In this case, for the fragment view,
we have a too many
relationship of fragments.
So that's why you see here that this
is the too many relationship key paths.
You see here that we're getting
the fragment view inspector
and just adding that into the
hierarchy like everything else.
You'll also note down here we're also
defining the method IB_RECT_FOR_CHILD.
So this was the method Jon mentioned
before about being able to
define where our children live.
So we can go ahead and click on them.
So now once this is
all into the view here,
the nib just has some simple UI for it.
I can go ahead and
build my project again.
I already had Interface Builder up
and the plugin was already loaded,
so I need to quit that first so
that I can reload the plugin.
And now you'll note
that when I come back,
I can create a new window.
And we'll come back here and
click on the demo section.
And I can drag this in.
But now you'll note when I bring
up the inspector that now there's
the slice for the fragment view.
And if I come over here
and change this value,
three, I should make it a little
wider so you can see that.
There's three, there's five, there's two.
I can change the number of fragments.
You'll also note that
if I hit undo and redo,
it just walks right through those,
so you get all that for free.
And I can go ahead and select an
individual fragment and change its title.
So maybe this is two,
and maybe this is three.
So it was just that easy,
just creating the inspector
and setting it up.
I want to take one moment to show you
something that's actually kind of fun.
Once you actually have your
view inside of the library,
you can actually go back and
customize your library nib.
So let's go ahead and
do that for a second.
I'm going to go back and
open up my library nib.
And this was the one
I started with originally.
So here's my custom view that I put in.
I can actually take that out now
and I could drag the real view
in here and drop that into place.
I can go ahead and if I wanted
to change the title for it,
maybe I could just put it as one so
you don't have to see the real view.
that
The shortened text.
But I can also do something
a little bit better,
which is when I dropped it in,
I only had one fragment,
and that's probably not
really useful to me.
So I'm going to go ahead and drag
in another fragment view here
and make it a little bit wider.
Set it up with,
I think maybe every time I use it,
I use four fragments,
and for some reason I always want
the last fragment to be called end.
So just like I did before with the first,
or the fragment, when I connected up
the represented object,
we can do that with this view as well.
So I can go ahead and,
just to show you that we can do
connections here to other views,
let's go ahead and drag connection
down to the fragment view.
That's interesting.
All right.
and I connected up to my fragment view.
That connected to the fragment.
That wasn't right.
Oh, you know why?
Because I'm connecting
it to the wrong window.
Don't make that mistake.
So let's go ahead and try this again.
What I really want to do is
connect this to the Fragment View.
That's better.
Go ahead and save that now.
If I go ahead and rebuild my nib,
and we're going to go ahead and
quit IB and start it up again
so it gets my updated plugin,
now you'll note that when I go back
in and drag out the Fragment View,
Now you'll get the nice spiffy
animation going to the full view,
and it also has the customized view.
So once you put your
views into the library,
you can actually go
back and customize them.
This also demonstrates the
ability to go ahead and customize
any view that's in the library.
So for example,
if you have a table view and
you always have four columns,
or you always want it set up a certain
way with sizes or springs and struts,
you can actually just create a
plugin that takes existing views,
customize them to the way you want
to use them or use them most often,
put them in the library,
and have them available for use.
So it's not just with custom views.
It's customizing any view
that you want to use.
So with that, I'll give it back to Jon.
Thank you, Matt.
All right, so we're actually done.
We're at the end of our presentation,
and we've integrated the Fragment
View into Interface Builder.
So a summary of what we did today.
We separated a class out,
a Fragment View,
into a framework so it would be ready
to be loaded by Interface Builder.
We built a plugin from our
Xcode plugin bundle template.
We subclassed Inspector,
and we added it to the set of inspectors
for our object by overriding one of
the Interface Builder category methods.
We used bindings to implement
the properties of each
of our inspector widgets.
And we overrode some integration
category methods in our object to
make things like undo work for free.
And with that,
I'm going to point you to Matt Formica
is available for more questions.
And you can see documentation and
sample code from our presentation
on the WWDC 2006 website.